add dev releases blog post (#4112)
pulumi/pulumi-hugo: themes/default/content/blog/introducing-dev-releases/index.md

# `id` properties of the team member files at /data/team/team. Create a file for
# yourself if you don't already have one.
authors:
    - thomas-gummerer

# At least one tag is required. Lowercase, hyphen-delimited is recommended.
tags:
  - cli
  - sdk
  - pre-release
---

At Pulumi, the stability of our releases is critically important.  A lot of infrastructure is built and deployed using Pulumi, and bugs in the way that infrastructure is deployed can cause long outages.  While we put a lot of emphasis on unit and integration testing, we wanted an additional layer to make sure we always deliver stable releases.  To that end we introduced dev releases.  The following blog post will talk more about how we are using them internally, and how you can too.

<!--more-->

## What are dev releases?

On every push to the main branch, in other words every time a pull request is merged, we publish a new dev release for both the CLI and the pulumi core SDKs.  For the CLI, we publish the binaries for all supported platforms to S3, while for the SDKs we create pre-release versions in whatever form the various package managers support.

> This means these dev releases always include all the latest features and bug fixes, that are going to go into a stable release a bit later.  And while it was always possible to get the latest CLI or SDKs with some moderate effort depending on the platform and language, having these be proper releases makes for a much more standardized experience on how to install them.

Reviewer: Nit: "going to go into" feels awkward, and "a bit later" seems vague

maybe "that will be in the next stable release" rather than "that are going to go into a stable release a bit later" -- or if we don't want to commit to saying "next stable release" you could say "that will be in a a future stable release"

Dev SDKs are currently available for NodeJS, Python, Dotnet and Go.

## How are we using them?

> At Pulumi we are not only developers of our product, but we also love using it internally.  All of our deploys for Pulumi Cloud are orchestrated by Pulumi.  In addition we use Pulumi for managing other things such as this blog, and even access management to services we are using is partly done with Pulumi.  All of these are a great way for us to test the our software in real world use cases, before releasing it.

Reviewer: Consider "All deploys for Pulumi Cloud are orchestrated by Pulumi"

> In addition to that, we also use the dev releases in for testing both our [templates](https://github.com/pulumi/templates/) and [examples](https://github.com/pulumi/examples/).  This is a huge set of pulumi programs, that can help figure out problems early.

Reviewer: "dev releases ~in~ for testing"

## Why you could use them

> In addition to making it easier for us to test new code that gets merged, and making sure we can release the most stable software possible, we also wanted to make it easier for users to use these dev releases.  There's a few reasons why these could be useful for you:

Reviewer: How about "Here are a few reasons why this could be useful for you:" or "Here are a few reasons why this could help your organization:"

---
title: "Introducing Dev Releases"

# The date represents the post's publish date, and by default corresponds with
# the date and time this file was generated. Dates are used for display and
# ordering purposes only; they have no effect on whether or when a post is
# published. To influence the ordering of posts published on the same date, use
# the time portion of the date value; posts are sorted in descending order by
# date/time.

> date: 2024-03-27T17:20:44+01:00

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
date: 2024-04-02
```

# The draft setting determines whether a post is published. Set it to true if
# you want to be able to merge the post without publishing it.
draft: false

# Use the meta_desc property to provide a brief summary (one or two sentences)
# of the content of the post, which is useful for targeting search results or
# social-media previews. This field is required or the build will fail the
# linter test. Max length is 160 characters.

> meta_desc: Introducing Dev Releases for the Pulumi CLI and SDKs.  Discover what they are and how they are useful.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
meta_desc: Introducing Dev Releases for the Pulumi CLI and SDKs: early releases of the Pulumi CLI and SDKs to enable customers to access every change as soon as it has been merged, instead of having to wait for the next release.
```

Author: Thanks for all the corrections!  Unfortunately this line is too long (we limit it to 160 characters).  What do you think about "Introducing Dev Releases for the Pulumi CLI and SDKs: early releases to enable customers to access changes as soon as they have been merged.", which is 140 characters?

Reviewer 2: Sounds good!

# The meta_image appears in social-media previews and on the blog home page. A
# placeholder image representing the recommended format, dimensions and aspect
# ratio has been provided for you.
meta_image: meta.png

# At least one author is required. The values in this list correspond with the
# `id` properties of the team member files at /data/team/team. Create a file for
# yourself if you don't already have one.
authors:
    - thomas-gummerer

# At least one tag is required. Lowercase, hyphen-delimited is recommended.
tags:
  - cli
  - sdk
  - pre-release
---

> At Pulumi, the stability of our releases is critically important.  A lot of infrastructure is built and deployed using Pulumi, and bugs in the way that infrastructure is deployed can cause long outages.  While we put a lot of emphasis on unit and integration testing, we wanted an additional layer to make sure we always deliver stable releases.  To that end are introducing dev releases of our CLI and SDKs.  The following blog post will talk more about how we are using them internally, and how you can too.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At Pulumi, the stability of our releases is critically important.  A lot of infrastructure is built and deployed using Pulumi, and any bugs in how that infrastructure is deployed can cause outages.  While we put a lot of emphasis on unit and integration testing, we added an additional layer to make sure we always deliver stable releases.  To that end, we are introducing dev releases of our CLI and SDKs.  This blog post will walk you through how we are using them internally, and how you can too!
```

<!--more-->

## What are dev releases?

On every push to the main branch, in other words every time a pull request is merged, we publish a new dev release for both the CLI and the Pulumi core SDKs.  For the CLI, we publish the binaries for all supported platforms to S3, while for the SDKs we create pre-release versions in whatever form the various package managers support.

This means these dev releases always include all the latest features and bug fixes, that will be in the next stable release.  And while it was always possible to get the latest CLI or SDKs with some moderate effort depending on the platform and language, having these be proper releases makes for a much more standardized experience on how to install them.

Dev SDKs are currently available for NodeJS, Python, Dotnet and Go.

> ## How are we using them?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## How are we using them internally at Pulumi?
```

> At Pulumi we are not only developers of our product, but we also love using it internally.  All deploys for Pulumi Cloud are orchestrated by Pulumi.  In addition we use Pulumi for managing other things such as this blog, and even access management to services we are using is partly done with Pulumi.  All of these are a great way for us to test the our software in real world use cases, before releasing it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At Pulumi we are not only developers of our product, but we also love using it internally.  All deploys for Pulumi Cloud are orchestrated by Pulumi.  In addition we use Pulumi for managing other things such as this blog, and even access management to services we are using is partly done with Pulumi.  All of these are a great way for us to test our software in real world use cases, before releasing it.
```

In addition to that, we also use the dev releases for testing both our [templates](https://github.com/pulumi/templates/) and [examples](https://github.com/pulumi/examples/).  This is a huge set of Pulumi programs, that can help figure out problems early.

> ## Why you could use them

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## How you can leverage dev releases
```

In addition to making it easier for us to test new code that gets merged, and making sure we can release the most stable software possible, we also wanted to make it easier for users to use these dev releases.  There's a few reasons why these could help your organization:

- A bug fix has been merged, but not yet released?  You can get it a few minutes after it is merged via the dev release channel
- You want to make sure your production stacks work well with the latest version of Pulumi?  Use dev releases with your dev stacks for some early testing.  We'd be delighted with any bugs that are reported before they make it into a release.

> For instructions on how to use the CLI dev releases see the [Install Docs](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/install/ TODO: link to the appropriate header when https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-hugo/pull/4097 is merged), and for pre-release versions of dev SDKs see the docs for the appropriate [language SDK](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/languages-sdks/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## How to get started

For instructions on how to use the CLI dev releases see the [Install Docs](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/install/ TODO: link to the appropriate header when https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-hugo/pull/4097 is merged), and for pre-release versions of dev SDKs see the docs for the appropriate [language SDK](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/languages-sdks/).

Happy building!
```

# date/time.
date: 2024-04-02

# The draft setting determines whether a post is published. Set it to true if
# you want to be able to merge the post without publishing it.
draft: false

# Use the meta_desc property to provide a brief summary (one or two sentences)
# of the content of the post, which is useful for targeting search results or
# social-media previews. This field is required or the build will fail the
# linter test. Max length is 160 characters.
meta_desc: 'Introducing Dev Releases for the Pulumi CLI and SDKs: early releases to enable customers to access changes as soon as they have been merged.'

# The meta_image appears in social-media previews and on the blog home page. A
# placeholder image representing the recommended format, dimensions and aspect
# ratio has been provided for you.
meta_image: meta.png

# At least one author is required. The values in this list correspond with the
# `id` properties of the team member files at /data/team/team. Create a file for
# yourself if you don't already have one.
authors:
    - thomas-gummerer

# At least one tag is required. Lowercase, hyphen-delimited is recommended.
tags:
  - cli
  - sdk
  - pre-release
---

> At Pulumi, the stability of our releases is critically important.  A lot of infrastructure is built and deployed using Pulumi, and any bugs in how that infrastructure is deployed can cause outages.  While we put a lot of emphasis on unit and integration testing, we added an additional layer to make sure we always deliver stable releases.  To that end, we are introducing dev releases of our CLI and SDKs.  This blog post will walk you through how we are using them internally, and how you can too!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
At Pulumi, the stability of our CLI and SDK releases is critically important.  A lot of infrastructure is built and deployed using Pulumi, and any bugs in how that infrastructure is deployed can cause outages.  While we put a lot of emphasis on unit and integration testing, we are also constantly investing in news ways to provide additional safeguards to ensure we always deliver stable releases.  To that end, we are introducing new dev releases of our CLI and SDKs, which will enable users who want to work with the very latest bits to try them out before they are deployed widely to the entire Pulumi user base.  This blog post will walk you through how we are using them internally, and how you can too!
```

<!--more-->

## What are dev releases?

On every push to the main branch, in other words every time a pull request is merged, we publish a new dev release for both the CLI and the Pulumi core SDKs.  For the CLI, we publish the binaries for all supported platforms to S3, while for the SDKs we create pre-release versions in whatever form the various package managers support.

This means these dev releases always include all the latest features and bug fixes, that will be in the next stable release.  And while it was always possible to get the latest CLI or SDKs with some moderate effort depending on the platform and language, having these be proper releases makes for a much more standardized experience on how to install them.

> Dev SDKs are currently available for NodeJS, Python, Dotnet and Go.

Reviewer 3: Can we include a brief section with the basic example of how to use these (and then links to the new docs for all the other variants of how to use these from other installation methods)?  Code/CLI examples directly inline will make this more immediately clear/engaging.

In addition to that, we also use the dev releases for testing both our [templates](https://github.com/pulumi/templates/) and [examples](https://github.com/pulumi/examples/).  This is a huge set of Pulumi programs, that can help figure out problems early.

## How you can leverage dev releases

In addition to making it easier for us to test new code that gets merged, and making sure we can release the most stable software possible, we also wanted to make it easier for users to use these dev releases.  There's a few reasons why these could help your organization:

- A bug fix has been merged, but not yet released?  You can get it a few minutes after it is merged via the dev release channel
- You want to make sure your production stacks work well with the latest version of Pulumi?  Use dev releases with your dev stacks for some early testing.  We'd be delighted with any bugs that are reported before they make it into a release.

## How to get started

> For instructions on how to use the CLI dev releases see the [Install Docs](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/install/ TODO: link to the appropriate header when https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-hugo/pull/4097 is merged), and for pre-release versions of dev SDKs see the docs for the appropriate [language SDK](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/languages-sdks/).

Reviewer 3: Would be nice to link direclty to the header for the appropraite section in each language SDK as well here once that other PR merges.
